http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Kubuntu_Quantal_Media_Players#Music_Players
Kubuntu Quantal Media Players
Kubuntu Quantal Media Players
Full page | eBook Version
Contents [hide]
1 Music Players
1.1 Amarok
1.1.1 Amarok themes
1.1.2 Play Shoutcast Internet Radio through Amarok
1.1.3 RecordStream
1.1.4 Stream Amarok output to Airport Express
1.2 QMMP
1.3 Audacious
1.4 Juk
1.5 Clementine
1.6 Banshee Music Player
1.7 Exaile Music Manager and Player
1.8 Songbird Music Player
1.9 aTunes
1.10 VLC Player
2 Multimedia Players
2.1 VLC Multimedia Player
2.1.1 VLC plugins
2.2 MPlayer Multimedia Player
2.2.1 Dump a video stream to disc
2.3 Dragonplayer
2.4 Kaffeine Video Player
2.5 Xine-UI Multimedia Player
2.6 RealPlayer 11 Multimedia Player
2.7 Internet TV
2.7.1 Myth TV
2.7.2 Miro Player
2.7.3 Sopcast Internet TV
2.7.4 Zattoo
2.7.5 TV Time (TV Viewer)
2.7.6 ABC iView
2.7.7 BBC iPlayer
2.7.7.1 get_iplayer (BBC program recording)
2.7.8 Netflix in Wine app
2.7.9 Netflix Android App
2.8 Internet Radio
2.8.1 Last FM
2.8.2 Shoutcast Internet Radio
2.8.3 StreamTuner Stream Directory Browser
2.8.4 Streamripper
2.9 Media Centers and PVR (Personal Video Recorder)
2.9.1 MythTV
2.9.2 Mythbuntu
2.9.3 XBMC
2.9.4 Boxee
2.9.5 Elisa
2.9.6 LinuxMCE
2.10 Multimedia Servers
2.10.1 MPD Multimedia Playing Server
2.10.2 TiMidity++ MIDI Sound Server
2.10.3 uShare UPnP A/V Media Server
2.11 Content streaming
2.11.1 Icecast
2.11.2 CRTMPServer
2.11.3 Red5 Media Server
2.11.4 FLVStreamer
2.11.5 rtmpdump (Capture streaming video)
2.11.6 Streamcapture with VLC
2.11.7 Streamcapture with MPlayer
Music Players

Amarok

 Amarok is the default music player in Kubuntu. Volume normalization (using ReplayGain) is a built-in option.
Amarok themes
Amarok themes can be downloaded from KDE Look and installed.
Download the theme (ending in .tar.bz2) to your home directory (or chosen directory).
Amarok -> Settings -> Appearance -> Install New Style
Select the downloaded file.
Play Shoutcast Internet Radio through Amarok
 Shoutcast internet radio can be played through Amarok 2.2 or later by installing the Shoutcast script:
Amarok -> Tools -> Script Manager -> Get More Scripts -> Search: Shoutcast -> Install
-> Restart Amarok -> Tools -> Script Manager -> Shoutcast service tralala (ticked) -> Ok -> Internet -> Shoutcast service tralala
Note: Internet radio streams use many different ports. You must adjust your firewall to allow the ports over which the streams will be sent.
RecordStream
 RecordStream is an Amarok plugin that enables recording of Internet Radio streams (works best with Shoutcast streams). Install:
Amarok -> Tools -> Script Manager -> Get More Scripts -> Search: RecordStream -> Install
Install the required streamripper module:
sudo apt-get install streamripper
RecordStream / Streamripper will record streams in two modes:
"Record webradio" will save each individually streamed track to its native MP3 or AAC file, preserving the original song/track title.
"Record livestream" will record continuously whatever is being streamed until the "Stop recording" option is chosen.
Of course, Streamripper can be used as a standalone command-line program as well. For instructions, enter man streamripper on the command line. The RecordStream script is not set up to pass all the variables available to Streamripper; for fine-grained control it is better to run Streamripper as a standalone program. See these tips.
Stream Amarok output to Airport Express
Make sure your firewall is not blocking ports 5353, 5000, and 6000.
To stream any audio to your Airport Express, including from Amarok, use the latest version of Pulse Audio.
QMMP

 QMMP is a compact, fast Qt-based music player similar to XMMS2, Audacious, and WinAmp2 and can use the "Classic" WinAmp2 / XMMS skins. Volume normalization (using ReplayGain) is a built-in option. It supports many plugins and is ideal for streaming content. Install:
sudo apt-get install qmmp
You can switch between the "PulseAudio Output Plugin" and the "ALSA Output Plugin" under
QMMP -> Settings -> Audio -> Current output plugin.
There are many places to get .wsz skins ("Classic" Winamp2/XMMS) that are compatible with QMMP, Audacious, or XMMS2:
Winamp2 Classic skins
XMMS Themes from Gnome-look
1001 Skins
Audacious

 Audacious is a compact, fast GTK-based music player that is a fork of XMMS. It resembles XMMS2 and WinAmp2 and can use the "Classic" WinAmp2 / XMMS skins. Volume normalization (using ReplayGain) is a built-in option. It supports many plugins and is ideal for streaming content. Install:
sudo apt-get install audacious
You can switch between the "PulseAudio Output Plugin" and the "ALSA Output Plugin" under
Audacious -> Preferences -> Audio -> Current output plugin.
Juk

Juk is a compact, fast music player with a simple iTunes-like track browser, ID3-tag editing capabilities, and playlist interface. However, volume normalization is not currently an option. It is part of the KDE multimedia project. Install:
sudo apt-get install juk
Clementine

Clementine is a Qt-based music player modeled on Amarok, with available options such as ID3 tags, music format conversion, audio CD playing, and more. Install:
sudo apt-get install clementine
Banshee Music Player

Banshee is a Gstreamer, Mono and Gtk-based music player for Linux and Mac OS X. It supports multiple mp3 players (including the iPod).There are plugins for podcasts, internet radio, and more.
sudo apt-get install banshee
Exaile Music Manager and Player

Exaile is a GTK-based music player that supports many formats, incorporates a Shoutcast directory, a plugin for iPod, Last.FM support, tabbed playlists, and other features. Install:
sudo apt-get install exaile
Songbird Music Player

Songbird is an open source music player from Mozilla with an appearance meant to resemble iTunes. It is in current development and does not yet have full support for mp3 players (such as the iPod). It incorporates a Shoutcast internet radio interface. The current beta version can be downloaded from the website.
aTunes

aTunes is a Java-based player designed to be similar to iTunes. Installation instructions are here.
VLC Player

VLC works quite well as an audio player. See this section.
Multimedia Players

Most current video multimedia players play many video formats (as well as audio), including the Flash video .flv format.
VLC Multimedia Player
 VLC is a cross-platform multimedia player that supports many formats without need for additional codecs. It can not only receive video streams (also see here to convert it to mp4), but can act as a server for video streams, as well. It is one of the only players that can view and backup almost any DVD format, no matter which copy protection is used. See these tips for using VLC to backup/rip encrypted DVDs.
sudo apt-get install vlc vlc-plugin-pulse
VLC plugins
There are many VLC plugins. You will likely only need to install a few of them, however, depending on your hardware and input/output configuration:
sudo apt-get install vlc-plugin-ggi vlc-plugin-jack vlc-plugin-pulse vlc-plugin-sdl vlc-plugin-svgalib mozilla-plugin-vlc vlc-plugin-esd
MPlayer Multimedia Player
 Mplayer (and now Mplayer2) is a video player with a wide range of formats supported (including RealMedia and Windows-codecs) and a wide variety of outputs.
sudo apt-get install mplayer
or
sudo apt-get install mplayer2
There are several frontends for MPlayer. See this complete list.
Kmplayer (sudo apt-get install knmplayer) -- for KDE
KPlayer (sudo apt-get install kplayer) -- for KDE
SMPlayer (sudo apt-get install smplayer) -- Qt-based
Mplayer-gui (sudo apt-get install mplayer-gui) -- GTK-based
Dump a video stream to disc
You can dump a video stream to disc using Mplayer:
mplayer -dumpstream streamurl
If you don't know the exact URL of the stream you wish to save, you can discover it from the webpage it is embedded in by using the Firefox add-on UnPlug. Do not save streams that are illegal to download.
Dragonplayer
Dragonplayer is the default KDE media player included in Kubuntu. It does not have as many options or play as many formats as other video players, but is integrated into the KDE framework.
Kaffeine Video Player
Kaffeine is a video player for Kubuntu/KDE. It does not play as many formats as other video players. Install:
sudo apt-get install kaffeine
Xine-UI Multimedia Player
Xine UI is a multimedia player based, of course, on the xine platform. It can also play streamed video from the Internet and supports most formats, including some uncommon ones.
 sudo apt-get install xine-ui
RealPlayer 11 Multimedia Player
The Linux Realplayer is actually based on the open-source Helix player. Helix itself can be installed as a package easily (read Helix plug-in) and used instead of Realplayer. These instructions are to install the proprietary version of RealPlayer only.
Download Real Player official linux player
Open a terminal and cd to the directory you have downloaded realplayer's .bin file. Then issue the following commands
chmod +x RealPlayer11GOLD.bin
sudo ./RealPlayer11GOLD.bin
When it asks for installation path enter /usr/local/RealPlayer
For all other questions just choose default by pressing enter.
If you have installed mozilla-mplayer package you will need to delete the mplayer firefox plugin for real player videos. Other wise all real player files will open with mplayer. For that please do this
cd /usr/lib/firefox/plugins
sudo rm mplayerplug-in-rm.*
Please remember to restart firefox and when ever you click on a real player video choose the option open with and use /usr/bin/realplay
Internet TV
Myth TV
See MythTV. Ubuntu TV is essentially Myth TV.
Miro Player
Miro Player (formerly Democracy TV Player) is an open-source Internet TV and video player that allows you to watch Internet TV and videos. Unlike other video players, it contains a structured guide that includes more than 2500 channels, has built-in BitTorrent, and has features that can automatically save videos, such as from YouTube.
sudo apt-get install miro
Sopcast Internet TV
Sopcast is an interface to play live P2P video streams through the VLC media player. Install VLC first. This is a Chinese program and most content is hosted in China and may not be legal in your area. Please consult local regulations.
You can install a SopCast Player PPA using the following commands:
 echo "deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/jason-scheunemann/ppa/ubuntu `lsb_release -cs` main" | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list
 sudo apt-key adv --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-keys CD30EE56 
If you are using Karmic or later:
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:jason-scheunemann/ppa
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install sopcast-player
Run:
Applications->Sound & Video->SopCast Player
Zattoo
Zattoo is a free Internet TV player that allows you to watch terrestrial television from various countries in Europe. See the Zattoo Download page for further instructions on installation. For screenshots and an alternate installation guide, see this UbuntuGeek guide.
Install dependencies first:
sudo apt-get install libgtkglext1 adobe-flashplugin
Download the latest .deb package from Zattoo Download page.
 wget http://zattoo.com/release/download.php
Install the downloaded .deb package:
sudo dpkg -i *.deb
Run Zattoo:
K -> Application -> Multimedia -> Zattoo Player
Note: you have to register for a free account when the player starts.
TV Time (TV Viewer)
TVTime allows the display of television and other digital inputs (made available to the computer by a video capture card). A plugin for the Remuco remote control (remuco-tvtime) is also available. Install:
sudo apt-get install tvtime
ABC iView
Python-iView is a program that works with rtmpdump to record streams offered by ABC iView (Australia). Installation instructions are at the PPA repository.
BBC iPlayer
BBC iPlayer provides replays and downloads of BBC programs to UK residents. The BBC, however, has crippled its streams to prevent downloading and legal actions against iPlayer appear to be in progress. (Flvstreamer may be required for rtmp stream recording). To install a Flash 64-bit edition of iPlayer:
sudo aptitude remove flashplugin-installer
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:sevenmachines/flash
sudo aptitude update
sudo aptitude install flashplugin64-installer
get_iplayer (BBC program recording)
get_iplayer allows BBC streams (through their iplayer service) for UK users, as well as Hulu streams for US users, to be recorded to mp4, wav and mp3 files (depending on content). Install v2.66 (may not work for all users):
sudo apt-get install get-iplayer
To install a newer version:
sudo apt-get install flvstreamer id3v2 libmp3-info-perl atomicparsley libwww-perl perl
wget ftp://ftp.infradead.org/pub/get_iplayer/get_iplayer-2.79.tar.gz
tar xvf get_iplayer-2.79.tar.gz
sudo ln -s iplayer-2.79/get_iplayer /usr/bin/get_iplayer
Note: When running this version, use get_iplayer instead of get-iplayer.
Add preferences:
get_iplayer --prefs-add --modes=flashhd,flashvhigh,flashhigh,flashnormal,iphone
get_iplayer --prefs-add --flvstreamer "/usr/bin/flvstreamer"
Delete ~/.swfinfo:
cd ~/.swfinfo
sudo rm *
cd ..
sudo rmdir swfinfo
See the website for usage or:
man get-iplayer
Get a current listing of what's available and save it in the home directory
get-iplayer >~/iplayer-listing.txt
Having found some interesting programmes (and noted the numbers found in the left-hand column), download them:
get-iplayer --get 123 537
For Live Streaming (with mplayer) use one of these commands.
iPlayer can be run in Wine using these instructions.
Some users will need to install rtmpdump for successful streaming.
Netflix in Wine app
 A (Windows-based) Netflix app (32-bit version) has been modified and bundled to work in the Wine environment. It is available as a package from a private (non-approved) repository here.
To run the app will require a 32-bit operating system, which for a 64-bit operating system usually requires installing ia32-libs at the minimum (and possibly ia32-libs-multiarch):
sudo apt-get install ia32-libs ia32-libs-multiarch
Then install the Netflix-desktop:
sudo apt-add-repository ppa:ehoover/compholio
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install netflix-desktop
The package installs the Microsoft core fonts (ttf-mscorefonts-installer). During this part of the installation a prompt to accept the Microsoft EULA will appear. Use the "TAB" key to maneuver to the "Ok" button and then press "Enter" to accept. The installation should then continue to completion.
The package creates a menu item for the Netflix Destop, or the app can be started from a terminal with the command:
netflix-desktop
The Netflix app starts in full screen mode. You can exit out of the app completely by pressing ALT+F4 or by using the pop-up "X." You can also press F11 to exit out of full screen mode.
Additional installation tips are here.
Netflix Android App
A Netflix app for the Android market is available here. It must be installed in an Android environment but is not fully functional in the current Android emulators.
Internet Radio
Internet radio streams through different ports, so check your firewall if you are not able to play the streams.
Last FM
LastFM is a service for sharing music recommendations and individual radio streams. It is included as an option in Amarok, or can be installed separately:
sudo apt-get install lastfm
Shoutcast Internet Radio
 Shoutcast is the first and last free mp3 streaming service. Hundreds of radio streams can be played through Amarok, Audacious, or other multimedia player. Simply associate the .pls streams with your favourite player (Audacious or QMMP recommended).
StreamTuner Stream Directory Browser
StreamTuner lists streams available on the Internet through a GTK-based interface. It lists Shoutcast and Live365 streams, among others. Install:
sudo apt-get install streamtuner
Streamripper
 Streamripper is a standalone command-line utility to record online audio streams (primarily from Shoutcast). Also see these tips. Install:
sudo apt-get install streamripper
Fadecut is a front-end script that allows the removal of certain elements of live streams (sudo apt-get install fadecut)
KStreamRipper/KRadioRipper is a GUI front-end for KDE (sudo apt-get install kradioripper)
Streamripper is also available within the music player Amarok using the RecordStream plug-in.
Media Centers and PVR (Personal Video Recorder)
There are a number of open-source Media Centers for Linux, some of which include personal video recorder functions. For a full list of open-source media centers, see this guide.
MythTV
MythTV is a media center with PVR (personal video recorder) for retrieving, recording, and playing broadcast and Internet TV and other multimedia content. It has many options and plugins for expansion. To be useful, you will need a compatible TV tuner card. For setup tips, see this guide. Install:
sudo apt-get install mythtv
Mythbuntu
Mythbuntu is an integrated Ubuntu (Xubuntu) desktop optimised for MythTV usage. In can be used instead of adding MythTV to a (K)Ubuntu desktop.
XBMC
XBMC is a free, mature, open-source cross-platform media center. It does not have a PVR capability nor as many functions as MythTV, but has a very nice interface. Install:
sudo apt-get install xbmc
Boxee
Boxee is an XBMC-like open source package to allow streaming video over the Internet, including from YouTube and other sites. It is a fork of XBMC, and is still in alpha development and testing stage. It is currently available for 32-bit systems only, and recommended for Hardy. A current version is anticipated soon. (Note: Boxee does not run Netflix on Linux, despite their ads). See these download instructions.
Elisa
Elisa is a cross-platform media center that uses the Gstreamer multimedia framework. Commercial plugins are available from Fluendo. It supports PVR and Music Jukebox . Install:
sudo apt-get install elisa
LinuxMCE
See LinuxMCE.
Multimedia Servers
MPD Multimedia Playing Server
MPD is a music server meant for LAN usage. It can be controlled from remote clients. It can also stream internet streams.
TiMidity++ MIDI Sound Server
TiMidity is a MIDI software synthesizer required by several games and other MIDI-dependent applications.
sudo apt-get install timidity
uShare UPnP A/V Media Server
uShare is a UPnP media server compatible with the Xbox360 and PS3.
sudo apt-get install ushare
Also see: How-to: Run uShare at Startup.
Content streaming
Icecast
Icecast2 is a multimedia streaming server that allows the creation of an "Internet radio station." Install:
sudo apt-get install icecast2
There are several GUI-frontends for Icecast (that allow live inputs to be streamed).
EZStream (sudo apt-get install ezstream)
DarkIce (sudo apt-get install darkice)
Ices2 (sudo apt-get install ices2) is part of the Icecast2 project. It allows Ogg Vorbis streaming only.
Oggfwd (sudo apt-get install oggfwd) is a barebones client to send Ogg Vorbis files to an Icecast server.
Djplay (sudo apt-get install djplay) is Qt-based, uses the Jack audio system, and supports live Icecast broadcasting.
LiquidSoap (sudo apt-get install liquidsoap liguidsoap) is an OCAML and Python-based scripting language and GTK-based GUI for building complex audio-streaming systems (with many plug-ins available) for use with an Icecast (or other streaming) server
CRTMPServer
CRTMPServer (aka Rtmpd) is a free (GPLv3-licensed) server that can stream Flash and many other media types using rtmp streaming. Install:
sudo apt-get install crtmpserver
Red5 Media Server
The Red5 Media Server is a Java-based media streaming server and recorder that uses rtmp and AMF protocols to stream (and/or receive) flash video and other content. Install:
sudo apt-get install red5-server
FLVStreamer
Flvstreamer is an open source command-line RTMP client to stream audio or video content from all types of flash or rtmp servers. It is a fork from rtmpdump with encrypted rtmp and swf verification support removed. Install:
sudo apt-get install flvstreamer
rtmpdump (Capture streaming video)
Rtmpdump allows the capture of many types of streaming video. Install:
sudo apt-get install rtmpdump
Streamcapture with VLC
VLC allows the capture of certain types of streaming content. See the VLC instructions. You can also "Convert" streams to selected video file formats.
VLC -> Media -> Stream... -> Network -> Please enter a network URL:
If you don't know the exact URL of the stream you wish to save, you can discover it from the webpage it is embedded in by using the Firefox add-on UnPlug. Do not save streams that are illegal to download.
Streamcapture with MPlayer
See this section.