 Ref: Need more information
 Study on the Theory and Application of Digital Logistics Balancing Problem Using Bionics

【Abstract】 In the era of rapid change, as the result of vigorous market competition, increasing customer demands, internationalization and environment, the demands of logistics is enhanced. It is difficult for traditional logistics to adapt to the new economy development demands. So it is urgent to study new logistics pattern. Key problems of social logistics and manufacturing logistics are discussed in this thesis. The thesis is organized as follows.1) The concept and definition of digital logistics are proposed on the basis of research of logistics development. Connotations of digital logistics, which include virtual logistics, intelligent logistics and informational logistics, are discussed. The information character and key problems of digital logistics are also discussed.2) The assembly line balancing problem in manufacturing logistics is studied. On the research of ant colony optimization, an improved ant colony optimization with pheromone summation rules is proposed. According to the characteristics of the simple assembly line balancing problem (SALBP), the method of dynamic generation of the tour network of ants is developed. The proposed algorithm makes use of the trail information which is deposited between the task and the task selected position, and pheromone summation rules is adopted. Global pheromone trail update and local pheromone trail update are considered. The heuristic information is set to the position weight for tasks of SALBP, which synthesis consider processing time of the task and the number of successors. The proposed algorithm is tested and compared with literature test problems, the result indicated the validity of the proposed algorithms.3) Ant colony optimization for mixed-model assembly line balancing problem (MMALBP) is studied. In compare to simple assembly line balancing problem, MMALBP is more complex considering the precedence relation of different models. In order to solve MMALBP, the model is constructed. An hybrid behavior ant colony optimization with pheromone summation rules for MMALBP is proposed. Hybrid behavior, which considered exploitation, biased exploration and random selection, is adopted. According to the characteristics of the MMALBP, the function of number of workstations is replaced by a new nonlinear objective function. The experiment results certified the new algorithms is effective.4) Bucket brigades for manufacturing logistics balancing problem are
