Are you a goal-oriented person?
Are you a team player?
Are you willing to relocate? In the future?
Are you willing to travel? How much?
Describe a situation in which you were successful.
Do you enjoy doing independent research?
Do you handle conflict well?
Do you handle pressure well?
Do you have any location preferences?
Do you have any plans for further education?
Dont just read these questionspractice and rehearse the answers. Dont let the employer interview be the first time you actually formulate an answer in spoken words. It is not enough to think about them in your headpractice! Sit down with a friend, a significant other, or your roommate (an especially effective critic, given the amount of preparation to date) and go through all of the questions. If you have not yet completed a mock interview, do it now. Make the most of every single interview opportunity by being fully prepared!
Fifty Standard Interview Questions
Have you ever had a conflict with a boss or professor? How did you resolve it?
How do you personally define success?
How do you plan to achieve these goals?
How familiar are you with the community that were located in?
How has your education prepared you for your career?
How much money do you need to make to be happy?
How much training do you think youll need to become a productive employee?
How would you describe your ideal job?
If I were to ask one of your professors (or a boss) to describe you, what would he or she say?
If you had to live your life over again, what one thing would you change?
Is money important to you?
It is not enough to have solid answers for only the above questions. You need to be prepared for the full spectrum of questions that may be presented. For further practice, make sure you go through the required mock interview (see the Competitive Interview Prep chapter); and for further review, look at some of the following questions:
Tell me about some of your recent goals and what you did to achieve them.
Tell me about your experience.
Tell me about yourself.
What accomplishments have given you the most satisfaction in your life?
What are your short-term goals?
What changes would you make at your college?
What do you know about our company?
What do you see yourself doing five years from now?
What do you think it takes to be successful in this career?
What goals do you have in your career?
What is your greatest strength?
What is your greatest weakness?
What is your long-range objective?
What is your most important accomplishment to date?
What kind of salary are you looking for?
What major problem have you had to deal with recently?
What motivates you?
What qualities do you feel a successful manager should have?
What were your favorite classes? Why?
When did you decide on this career?
Where do you want to become ten years from now?
Who were your favorite professors? Why?
Why are you interested in our company?
Why did you choose this career?
Why did you choose to attend your college?
Why do you want to work in the _____ industry?
Why is your GPA not higher?
Why should I hire you?
Would you rather work with information or with people?
